DOCS-11518-mqtt3-first-version-kt (#1579)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: mqtt3/1.0.0/modules/ROOT/pages/mqtt3-connector-cluster.adoc

> = Understand Deploying MQTT3 Connector Apps in a Cluster

Reviewer: "Deploy MQTT3 Connector Apps in a Cluster"

> When an MQTT broker establishes a connection with a client, the broker identifies the client by its client ID. If the broker establishes a connection with a client whose client ID is `smart-bentley-123`, and then the broker receives a new connection with the same client ID, the broker closes the previous connection (assuming it is stale) and accepts the new connection. This mechanism is known as a client take-over. MQTT brokers employ this mechanism because in certain situations TCP connections can reach a half-open or invalid state, perhaps due to a crash in one of the communication ends, which is undesirable. The broker assumes the new incoming connection is the valid one, closes the older connection, and continues using the newly established connection.

Reviewer: MQTT broker establishes a connection with a client using its clientID. If the broker establishes a connection with a client whose client ID is `smart-bentley-123`, and then the broker receives a new connection with the same client ID, the broker closes the previous connection (assuming it is stale) and accepts the new connection. This mechanism is known as a client take-over. MQTT brokers employ this mechanism to prevent situations such as TCP connections reaching a half-open or invalid state due to a crash in one of the communication ends, which is undesirable. The broker assumes the new incoming connection to be valid, closes the older connection, and continues using the newly established connection.

> Because of this mechanism, Mule runtime engine (Mule) applications that use the MQTT3 Connector deployed in a cluster must generate a unique client ID for each deployed instance if all nodes are active at the same time.

Reviewer: Because of this mechanism, Mule runtime engine (Mule) applications that use the MQTT 3 Connector deployed in a cluster must generate a unique client ID for each active node in the cluster.

= Understand Deploying MQTT3 Connector Apps in a Cluster

> When an MQTT broker establishes a connection with a client, the broker identifies the client by its client ID. If the broker establishes a connection with a client whose client ID is `smart-bentley-123`, and then the broker receives a new connection with the same client ID, the broker closes the previous connection, assuming it is stale and takes on the new connection. This mechanism is known as a client take-over. MQTT brokers employ the mechanism because in certain situations TCP connections can reach a half-open or invalid state, perhaps due to a crash in one of the communication ends, which is undesirable. The broker assumes the new incoming connection as the valid one, closes the older connection, and continues using the newly established connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When an MQTT broker establishes a connection with a client, the broker identifies the client by its client ID. If the broker establishes a connection with a client whose client ID is `smart-bentley-123`, and then the broker receives a new connection with the same client ID, the broker closes the previous connection (assuming it is stale) and accepts the new connection. This mechanism is known as a client take-over. MQTT brokers employ this mechanism because in certain situations TCP connections can reach a half-open or invalid state, perhaps due to a crash in one of the communication ends, which is undesirable. The broker assumes the new incoming connection is the valid one, closes the older connection, and continues using the newly established connection.
```

> Because of this mechanism, Mule runtime engine (Mule) applications that use MQTT3 Connector deployed in a cluster result in a different client ID generated for every configuration in each deployed instance. Even when the specified client ID is the same in all the configurations. Therefore, you do not need to concern with defining a random or dynamic ID to avoid client take-overs between the nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because of this mechanism, Mule runtime engine (Mule) applications that use MQTT3 Connector deployed in a cluster generate a unique client ID for every configuration in each deployed instance. Even when the specified client ID is the same in all the configurations. Therefore, you do not need to concern yourself with defining a random or dynamic ID to avoid client take-overs between the nodes.
```

> The behavior occurs only, if the Mule app deploys in a cluster, in any other case, the specified client ID does not change.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This behavior occurs only if the Mule app deploys in a cluster; in any other case, the specified client ID does not change.
```

> A client ID is resolved for each node by taking the specified ID in the configuration and appending an specific identifier to each node. The resulting client ID has the following format: `{clientId}_{nodeId}_{domainId}_{appName}`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A client ID is resolved for each node by taking the specified ID in the configuration and appending a specific identifier to each node. The resulting client ID has the following format: `{clientId}_{nodeId}_{domainId}_{appName}`.
```
